# Exploring AlphaFold2’s capability to distinguish structural different variants’ conformation
This repository contains the code and data used in the master thesis.

**Abstract**
AlphaFold2 (AF2) is a deep learning model developed by Google DeepMind, that ac- curately predicts the three-dimensional structure of proteins with atomic precision and this thesis evaluates its capability in distinguishing between wild-type (wt) and variant protein structures. A dataset of 116 X-ray variant structures and four wt structures from four different proteins is used as a comparison dataset and 116 AF2 variant structures and four AF2 wt structures are generated correspondingly. Furthermore, a X-ray wt pro- tein structure control dataset is generated and used to assess the inherent inaccuracies in protein structure determination. The Root Mean Square Deviation (RMSD) is calcu- lated for each structure pair and for each dataset. The results show that AF2 predicts protein variant structures of high quality but is not able to clearly and reliably distin- guish between variant and wt structures. The results from AF2 are further validated by comparing to ESMFold, another protein structure prediction model. Furthermore, ablation of the input Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA) to AF2 was shown to have little effect on producing structures that more closely resemble X-ray variant structures compared to using the entire MSA. This work contributes to the goals of the Protein Interactions and Stability in Medicine and Genomics (PRISM) center, which aims to improve understanding of disease variants and cellular biology.
